that's recording on that camera - lovely
alright hello I'm Tom Scott and I've got
a story for you it's set in a future not
necessarily the future I'm not saying
this is what will happen but I think
it's a plausible path from where we are
now to where we will be and where we
will be is April 2022 10 years time
first person we're going to meet those
Jason Stewart he's the MP for Tooting
and Stratton he is the Minister for
Social Development considered kind of a
hotshot among his party after winning
his seat in the 2020 general election a
very hard-fought contest also involved
in a massive scandal that we'll get back
to that in a minute this is the 2022
iPhone looks about the sound the laws of
physics dictate you still need a battery
brick but what has changed is the mobile
network speed 5g now bonk it's the
country in 100 megabit internet access
and the data caps are a thing of the
past which means that last year Apple
reused a trademark and introduced a life
it's quite similar to your history on
Microsoft Nokia phones or Droid Locker
on Android they're all descendants of
the accountability systems that have
been used for police officers and care
workers for years now with iLife the
phone is always recording audio and
sending it and your location to a cloud
server the descendants of Siri then
generate a transcript on it if you're
talking to someone else with our life
isn't give you a text chat log it's not
perfect but it's close enough and if you
have the new Apple headset it's got a
couple of cameras embedded in it but
you're always recording video when
they're connected that's uploaded
analyzed and stabilized by the same
systems the cable incidentally still
gets a title in knots every time you put
it in your bag what this means is that
you can say to people this is what I'm
looking at right now this is what I just
looked at it's all hooked up the social
networks this is what people use it for
Justin Bieber's comeback tour was live
streamed around the clock and never went
below fifty thousand viewers what's more
important though is that I life gives
you a life log a complete history every
person you've talked to every friendly
smile every stranger you've passed in
the street your own memory is now
indexed augmented searchable any first
50 gigs of storage your three and if you
think that's far fetched let's remember
Facebook is less than ten years old
twitter is only six years old and the
iPhone itself five years
we've gone from teaming text-entry to
full voice dictation in half the time
we're talking about here which brings us
back to Jason Stewart Jason is a member
of Cheshire boys the site result alumni
this public school runs on Disko fairly
popular community framework that
unfortunately has some fairly major
security flaws including one that allows
math stealing of purse words now let's
go to Russia
Natalya Orlovsky is there she is 15 she
lives an ex-soviet tale block and she
doesn't get out much
she's running a bot that pulls in as
many of those passwords as possible
offer and in particular evil she saw
what happened at the group that charged
pawn to Putin's credit card last year
but because she can she takes all these
passwords she bundles them together and
she puts them out on a pastebin side
because she can it's just another big
leak could have been loads of them
before and Facebook and all the networks
will of course lock wide wall to count
down and require the change the password
again
in the meantime lots of people are
looking through this list and one person
is going to notice two team Jason at
gmail.com its password is Stuart 9
that's the same password you use it
everywhere and some girl said let's log
into his I plan first thing they see is
Apple's handy is this new feature Jason
Steele can be seen a few friends of this
walk by in Shoreditch he wasn't
recording with his phone had his
location and facial recognition did the
rest and it didn't take too much effort
to find out what he was doing that even
it's led to this
poison-pen letter arrived in every
single political editor and bloggers
inbox in the country the son eventually
runs with it first after all the blogs
have made it public knowledge and Jason
Stewart's career is ruined
except it's not because he's not
committing a crime under UK law he's
divorced so he wasn't even committing
adultery
it's 2022 he decides he's going to go on
the offense he gets up in Parliament and
says that our private lives should be
private and that we must investigate
these hackers
and he convinces the Met to investigate
which they do by filing a request with
Apple for any life logs that mention
Jason Stewart in the hours and minutes
before the link and uppal agrees because
that argument got settled years ago
after Blackpool
so that's the way it works here
someone's arrested 16 years old they
can't be named but we know they've been
released on bail on the grounds that
they not use the internet or a computer
which means of course that they can't do
anything and that's the president said
if you're in the same area as the victim
of a crime or you say the same name as a
victim of a crime minutes or hours
before your life log will get pulled and
searched through by the police and you
can always close your account and opt
out of course that option is right there
but it's so damned useful besides all
your friends use it and besides lots of
companies are requiring that their
employees use it for liability purposes
and besides all that it's not like
you've got anything to hide right I'm
Tom Scott thank you very much
you